Install WireShark and TCPDump to analyze client-server communication and identify 
	   UDP/TCP datagrams. 
Aim

To install and use Wireshark and TCPDump tools to analyze client–server communication, capture network packets, and identify TCP and UDP datagrams, thereby understanding network behavior relevant to secure and reliable Robotic Process Automation (RPA) systems.

Objective

To install Wireshark and TCPDump

To capture live network traffic

To analyze client–server communication

To identify and differentiate TCP and UDP datagrams

To understand the relevance of packet analysis in RPA

Procedure
A. Installation of Wireshark

Download Wireshark from the official website.

Run the installer and select default options.

Install Npcap (required for packet capturing).

Launch Wireshark after installation.

Select the active network interface (Wi-Fi / Ethernet).

B. Installation of TCPDump

On Linux:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install tcpdump


On Windows (via WSL or bundled tools):

Install TCPDump inside Linux subsystem or use WinDump.

Verify installation:

tcpdump --version

C. Packet Capture Using Wireshark

Open Wireshark.

Select the active network interface.

Start capturing packets.

Generate traffic by opening a website or running a client–server application.

Apply filters:

TCP packets: tcp

UDP packets: udp

Stop capture and analyze packets.

D. Packet Capture Using TCPDump

Run the following commands:

Capture all packets:

sudo tcpdump


Capture TCP packets only:

sudo tcpdump tcp


Capture UDP packets only:

sudo tcpdump udp


Capture packets from a specific port:

sudo tcpdump port 80

Program / Commands Used
Wireshark Filters
tcp
udp
tcp.port == 443
udp.port == 53

TCPDump Commands
sudo tcpdump -i eth0
sudo tcpdump tcp
sudo tcpdump udp
sudo tcpdump -nn

Identification of TCP and UDP Datagrams
Feature	TCP	UDP
Connection	Connection-oriented	Connectionless
Reliability	Reliable	Unreliable
Flags	SYN, ACK, FIN	No flags
Usage	HTTPS, FTP	DNS, Streaming

Result

Thus, Wireshark and TCPDump were successfully installed and used to analyze client–server communication. TCP and UDP datagrams were correctly identified, and packet-level network behavior was observed and recorded.
