EXPERIMENT – 7
ARP Poisoning and Analysis of Sniffed Data
Aim

To perform ARP poisoning using a security tool and analyze the sniffed network data in order to study Man‑in‑the‑Middle attacks and vulnerabilities present in local area networks.

Objectives

To study the working of Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)

To understand ARP cache poisoning attacks

To perform a Man‑in‑the‑Middle (MITM) attack

To capture and analyze network packets

To understand security risks in switched networks

To analyze sensitive data transmitted over the network

Theory / Background

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a fundamental protocol used in local area networks to map logical IP addresses to physical MAC addresses. When a system wants to communicate with another system in the same network, it broadcasts an ARP request asking for the MAC address corresponding to a particular IP address. The receiving system replies with its MAC address, which is then stored in the ARP cache.

ARP does not include any authentication mechanism, which makes it vulnerable to spoofing attacks. In ARP poisoning, an attacker sends fake ARP replies to the victim and the gateway, associating the attacker’s MAC address with the gateway’s IP address. As a result, all traffic between the victim and the gateway passes through the attacker system, enabling packet sniffing, data modification, or session hijacking.

Packet sniffing is the process of capturing and analyzing packets flowing through a network. Tools like Wireshark allow attackers or administrators to inspect packet headers, payloads, and protocol information.

Tools / Software Used

Kali Linux Operating System

Ettercap (for ARP poisoning and MITM attack)

Wireshark (for packet capture and analysis)

Procedure

Kali Linux is booted and connected to the same network as the victim system.

Network interface details are obtained using the ifconfig command.

IP and MAC address mapping of all devices is identified using arp -a.

Ettercap is launched in graphical mode using ettercap -G.

From the Ettercap menu, Unified Sniffing mode is selected.

The appropriate network interface is chosen for sniffing.

Host scanning is performed to detect all devices in the network.

The victim system is selected as Target 1 and the default gateway as Target 2.

ARP poisoning is initiated by enabling MITM mode.

Forged ARP packets are sent continuously to poison ARP caches.

Network traffic between victim and gateway is redirected.

Wireshark is opened to capture and analyze packets.

Protocols such as HTTP, DNS, TCP, and UDP are examined.

Program / Commands Used
ifconfig
arp -a
ettercap -G
wireshark

Output

ARP tables of victim and gateway were poisoned.

Network packets were intercepted successfully.

Protocol details and IP information were visible.

MITM attack was confirmed.

Result

ARP poisoning attack was successfully performed and network traffic was intercepted and analyzed.
